It's been awhile since I wrote in this, eh? (since [[3-4 Planning]]) It'd also been awhile since I've had some time to really sit down with this game. I woke up in the middle of the night after about a week of being sick and am currently recovering from a very effective fever. That said, I popped awake like a vampire and I'm suddenly very inspired to make some progress happen today. Before that though, I wanted to try something. Usually I throw loose notes around about my life and all that with little consistency or explanation to my situation. I'm not gonna lifedump everything here, but every development is a story, and this one is mine. I'll probably start to start my notes taking inventory of the occasion, like so:

I've been quite sick recently (thankfully it's not Covid), but soon I'll have more time to work on this project and NOT have it be for my environment design class. Next week I'm headed on my first cruise vacation with my  family which excites me a ton. The week after that is my last week of classes in this semester. Then comes the summer where I'll likely teach summer camps and look for a job at this museum near me. I want to leave enough time to keep developing though, so I'm being careful. In any case, I'm feeling very eager to develop as of late, so I'll do so tonight.

---

Tonight I want to continue to flesh out the fishing rod casting system and all that. Particularly, I have to make some decisions about how I want my fishing system to be. Do I want it to remain as it is now with the player able to move after casting, or do I have it call a scripted camera to follow the bobber, lock the player's position, and all that?

The latter sounds good, and keeps the focus ono the fishing which is cool. It *does* make things more complex, but I'll figure it out!

So let me think about this... I'm already to the point where I've determined cast strength (but am not showing it with UI yet TEEHEE) and I can cast, but I can't reel back. That'll be fun to do, but I can't get ahead of myself here.

As for how I'm currently casting the bobber, I really need to do it in a more elegant way. It *was* the last thing I did so it's the least fleshed out, but as I have it now, it's a bit rudimentary.

AHA!

## Problem 1: Casting the Bobber
That's right, it's official with a subheading now too. In any case, I don't know if I really want to use my path of the **test points** that ensure that we know what we're hitting and where we're going instead of just using one of the kinematic equations for a smoother cast.

In that same vein, I wonder if I should use a RigidBody to cast? I can make it kinematic and just move position to the next offset?
**This I can mess with later if I want, it's somewhat similar to setting the transform.position**. (Also now I think I'll have to do that to get collision from the bobber...)

Okay so step one here is to not move along the path of **test points** and instead follow one of the kinematic equations. Which one to choose? Time to look back on [[3-3 Progress#^e40ef5]].
...Except I don't, I already solved that in how I get the coordinates of my test points.
I might try to pull these equations up as some extension methods but idk... I'll do that! (`ExtensionMethods.cs`).
(Also I'm getting rid of that nasty old comment block in `FishingRodGearContext`).

Alrighty, so as I initially was wary of, it's more about the state of the variables we run through the equation over the equation itself. These are variables I'll likely have to store or pass around in some way. This sounds like a struct, honestly.
The main problem I'm running into in my head is how to get my beautiful variables into my `BobberScript` to launch the bobber and all that **in the best way  possible**. Perhaps I *shouldn't* worry about that so much and just get something down, but I don't want to do something tragically stupid.

I would pass the variables in in my LaunchBobber() function which is in `FishingRodGearContext`, which is called from the `FishingRodCasting` state. At that point in the program, the set of **test points** that I make become my path, and then I get the cast.

> [!Kinematics or Non-Kinematics...]
> Ahh, see, here's where I start to question my kinematic approach and wonder if wrestling with the more-fun but potentially more hellish non-kinematic RigidBody would be better...
> This is definitely better for my head noodle but it may not yield the best effects in my opinion. My main system for the test points would still work at this point of progress.
> Where I am progress-wise is where I have to choose which approach I want to try first. I don't want to waste my dev time....

You know, I went to TooManyGames one year and talked with that Chuggaaconroy, and I asked him what in his opinion makes a great game different from a good game, and he said that they "didn't say no". What he meant was that if he wanted to do something impractical, ridiculous, or insane, the game would let him.

That's definitely something a non-kinematic Rigidbody approach would do in my mind. I'm calculating test points and all that goodness which is good for determining initial cast information. But now, I want to try and cast my bobber realistically which might bounce off trees, roll off of ramps and rocks, and more. I can't do that with calculation (this year at least), so I'm committing.
Not to mention, I want this bobber soaring smoothly, so having it on the physics timer handles that for me well enough.

**Now, I'm going to try to launch my bobber non-kinematically**. Naturally, this creates its own host of problems, but I'd likely run into worse ones trying to calculate this all again.
First things first, I have to find out at what angle to launch the bobber. I could be stupid, but it's easy to describe this as the vector from our position to the first **test point**...

After some testing, I've found that the non-kinematic launch works, and is MOSTLY accurate. The launch is still a little slow with gravity and all but it might work I think.
There IS an interesting thing though, and I'm kinda scared by it. My kinematic equations are working as they are PRESENTLY, but gravity is -9.81f and my y_a (acceleration value) for the vertical component of all of my **test points** is -3.5f. This is sort of a problem, because I want to calculate **test points** along a somewhat predictable path I'm ACTUALLY going to launch at...
That said, some of my kinematic variables need to be rescaled.

WAIT I'M STUPID, the way I'm launching along the difference of the first two **test point** positions is screwing me right now. OK, here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to launch according to the player's rotation, at some fixed force. From THAT force I can try to work the things out kinematically using trig?

Now I'm launching using the player's forward vector, which I can eventually slap some offset onto to launch at an angle above the horizontal, but hmm.......

> [!HMMM]
> This is the part about non-kinematic Rigibody launching I wanted to examine.
> As soon as I added a nonzero value to the Drag field in the Rb, some dampening behavior happened that would absolutely crumble my poor kinematic equation!!
> I probably need those!! `>:[`
> The main question is, **how do I simulate and predict the path that my non-kinematic Rigidbody will go?**.

Honestly I think I know now. The way I handle the angle of the player has to change alongside the other variables, like my x0 and y0 velocity values... Those probably have to scale off of the aforementioned angle of launch. With that information, I SHOULD be able to launch at a given angle and solve for it.

BUT! I'll have to take care of that tomorrow, I can feel my feverish forehead literally radiating hit thinking too much about how to simulate the rigidbody.
Maybe I can make an indicator that's an exact version of the bobber (like they do that shows the trajectory AND the projectile going along it)?

---

It's DAYTIME now, and I'm ready to roll on some more development for a bit.
Thinking more about it, I think this is the right decision for a more fun game and all that.

I'm *beginning* to think that as I start development here on making the bobber launch stuff seperate from my test points, that I should save a struct of the players rotational data and casting power AT LEAST. Maybe it'd help to store the starting position and all that stuff, but I'd like to organize my launch variables before using them so extensively to calibrate my kinematic prediction system and all that.
Firstly, though, I'm mostly looking to find out where I'm getting the rotational info to influence the launch power scalar so I can save those values to the launch data. That'll influence how I ACTUALLY launch my RigidBody with an accurate and consistent force.